---
layout: post
title:  "Austin's Autumn Music Picks"
---
![autumn](https://austinorth.com/assets/autumn.png)

_A collection of music, released this year or releasing this fall, that
you should listen to as you watch the leaves change and feel the air
get chilly._

## Genre Quick Links
- [Indie, DIY and Folk](#indie,-diy-and-folk)
- [Electronic Music](#electronic-music)
- [Rap](#rap)
- [BONUS Old Jazz and Classical](#bonus-old-jazz-and-classical)

## Overview
Hi! Since this is my first post, I guess I'll go ahead and provide some
background on why I'm writing something like this. I really love finding new
music that few peoplee listen to, as I really think there are a lot of hidden
gems out there that are lost in the swirling algorithms of Spotify and other
mainstream streaming services. In addition, I'm from the Northeast, where the
four seasons are very pronounced. This in turn causes my music choices to change
seasonally, as I'm always craving something to augment my experience of each
moment I'm alive. (_ok, maybe that was little too deep, but you know what I'm saying!_)

Summer's ending right now as I'm writing this, and I'm thinking about what I
want to be listening to over the next few months. So I went ahead and made this
list. It is not exhaustive of all of my listening, but it is representative of
my favorites--things I find myself going back to listen to more than once. I've
also written a little paragraph below each song that you can read as you're
listening to hear my thoughts and hopefully enhance your listening!

I hope you enjoy these tunes, and have a wonderful autumn!

--Austin

## Indie, DIY and Folk

<iframe style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 120px;"
src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=4006805118/size=large/bgcol=ffffff/linkcol=e99708/tracklist=false/artwork=small/track=1212774238/transparent=true/"
seamless><a href="http://florist.bandcamp.com/album/emily-alone">Emily Alone by
Florist</a></iframe>

My friend Brendan got me listening to Florist about a year ago now in response
to a question: "What's an album could you listen to 100 times and still enjoy
listening to it?" This new album is just as good as the previous one, and just
incredibly thoughtful, calming, and melancholy. Great for a walk through the
park by yourself.

<iframe style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 120px;"
src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=3337404490/size=large/bgcol=ffffff/linkcol=e99708/tracklist=false/artwork=small/track=2070095062/transparent=true/"
seamless><a href="http://hovvdy.bandcamp.com/album/heavy-lifter">Heavy Lifter
by Hovvdy</a></iframe>

Drive down a gravel road beside a browning cornfield with the windows down.
This is the sound that Hovvdy conveys with every track. Chill as can be, and
really contemplative in a rural kind of way.

<iframe style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 120px;"
src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=1815552077/size=large/bgcol=ffffff/linkcol=e99708/tracklist=false/artwork=small/track=3382523346/transparent=true/"
seamless><a
href="http://salamirosejoelouismusic.bandcamp.com/album/zdenka-2080">Zdenka
2080 by salami rose joe louis</a></iframe>

A concept album based off the Book of the New Sun tetralogy by Gene Wolfe, this
latest Salami Rose album is cool as a cucumber. Cumulous Potion, in particular,
is a chill, funky jam for a sunny day walking through the park, with the leaves
crunching beneath your feet.

<iframe style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 120px;"
src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=3797296382/size=large/bgcol=ffffff/linkcol=e99708/tracklist=false/artwork=small/track=4080249711/transparent=true/"
seamless><a
href="http://slaughterbeach.bandcamp.com/album/safe-and-also-no-fear">Safe And
Also No Fear by Slaughter Beach, Dog</a></iframe>

Prepare to cry. This might be my album of the year. Jake Ewald of Modern
Baseball is the brains behind this project, and it gets better with every
album. Anything is a lilting commentary on the mundane--a little something to
make you think a little more about the little somethings in your life that you
don't normally think about.

## Electronic Music

<iframe width="100%" height="166" scrolling="no" frameborder="no"
allow="autoplay"
src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/659204834&color=%23ff5500&auto_play=false&hide_related=false&show_comments=true&show_user=true&show_reposts=false&show_teaser=true"></iframe>

Knapsack is super young and super talented. He has an MGMT sound with a more
straightforward lyrical structure that will have you replaying his songs in
your head for days on end. I am so incredibly excited to see where his music
takes him next, and will be listening to this track on cold nights while
driving home in the city.

<iframe width="100%" height="166" scrolling="no" frameborder="no"
allow="autoplay"
src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/617164698&color=%23ff5500&auto_play=false&hide_related=false&show_comments=true&show_user=true&show_reposts=false&show_teaser=true"></iframe>

Former Hero has been blowing up lately. A lovable Brit with a talent for
producing hyper tracks with sad lyrics reflecting on the loss of his mother,
this guy has really got the whole turning-grief-into-art thing down pat. For
long drives on the turnpike.

<iframe width="100%" height="166" scrolling="no" frameborder="no"
allow="autoplay"
src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/660321137&color=%23ff5500&auto_play=false&hide_related=false&show_comments=true&show_user=true&show_reposts=false&show_teaser=true"></iframe>

Glass Cloak is the best synth album of 2019. I've been following Courtland
Urbano since I heard his production as a part of the Humble Beast record label
based out of Portland, OR. Dude is mad talented, and has a way of weaving synth
and analog samples into infectious beats that will have you vibing in no time
on a chilly day out in the neighborhood.

<iframe width="100%" height="166" scrolling="no" frameborder="no"
allow="autoplay"
src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/622277445&color=%23ff5500&auto_play=false&hide_related=false&show_comments=true&show_user=true&show_reposts=false&show_teaser=true"></iframe>

My absolute favorite deep house artist right now is Tilman. Hailing from
Germany, this guy has a way of making house tracks convey a mood through choice
samples of piano, strings and brass. Have a coffee on the porch of a cafe with
this one playing in your buds.

## Rap

<iframe width="100%" height="166" scrolling="no" frameborder="no"
allow="autoplay"
src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/639815706&color=%23ff5500&auto_play=false&hide_related=false&show_comments=true&show_user=true&show_reposts=false&show_teaser=true"></iframe>

Pittsburgh-native livefromthecity has a warm, deep tone that hits hard every
time. This particular track is for reflecting on past love and where you're at
now. Keep your head up! Real, yet hopeful. Is it summer yet?

<iframe width="100%" height="166" scrolling="no" frameborder="no"
allow="autoplay"
src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/618423600&color=%23ff5500&auto_play=false&hide_related=false&show_comments=true&show_user=true&show_reposts=false&show_teaser=true"></iframe>

Parris. Parris. Parris. Living exhibit of the grind paying off. Incredible
tone, tasteful use of pitch correction, and uplifting lyrics has this Tulsa
rapper blowing up quick. Wipe the frost off your windshield, it's time to get
out and get it done.

<iframe width="100%" height="166" scrolling="no" frameborder="no"
allow="autoplay"
src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/636447030&color=%23ff5500&auto_play=false&hide_related=false&show_comments=true&show_user=true&show_reposts=false&show_teaser=true"></iframe>

This project by NOT KLYDE is all about love. Dude does not take himself
seriously, but his ad-libs are ultra-catchy. Fun and lighthearted despite the
subject matter, and definitely a slapper for the afternoon cruise.

<iframe width="100%" height="166" scrolling="no" frameborder="no"
allow="autoplay"
src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/636421797&color=%23ff5500&auto_play=false&hide_related=false&show_comments=true&show_user=true&show_reposts=false&show_teaser=true"></iframe>

Pk has been on his grind all year. Literally putting out a track every day of
the year. Mainstream sound, underground status. Catch him before he gets
signed. This is a sunset track. You need to be on the way out to hang with your
friends after work while bumping this one.

## BONUS Old Jazz and Classical

<iframe width="100%" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/YBCKaiK9r9E" frameborder="0"
allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
allowfullscreen></iframe>

Brubeck. Saw him live when I was in my teens before he passed. I listened to
this particular track quite a lot while in college, in between classes. Take a
deep breath. You're almost through.

<iframe width="100%" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/r-Z8KuwI7Gc" frameborder="0"
allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
allowfullscreen></iframe>

A classic, bouncy piece, with Bill Evans on keys. Evans has always been an
inspiration of mine--smooth and precise, but an incredibly humble individual.
Reading music.

<iframe width="100%" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ugq7kZafpxs" frameborder="0"
allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
allowfullscreen></iframe>

Almost cry every time I hear this one. This was the music I grew up with
playing around the holidays--Thanksgiving and Christmas, specifically. Guaraldi
is still super underrated by modern generations, and his music will live in my
heart throughout each season. But this ones for any autumn moment, for real.
There isn't an incorrect time to listen to this song.

<iframe width="100%" height="166" scrolling="no" frameborder="no"
allow="autoplay"
src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/682203236&color=%23ff5500&auto_play=false&hide_related=false&show_comments=true&show_user=true&show_reposts=false&show_teaser=true"></iframe>

My own cooking. ;)
